Let's replace the categories dummy screen content here with a grade of categories because that's the
idea behind this screen after all now.
For that we can use a component we used before and that's the flat list.
Thus far we use that for normal lists.
You can actually also render grids with it and that's exactly what we'll do here.
And for that in this category screen all replace everything with flat list here and only output my flat
list.
Here in this screen which I return in the end and I will set num columns here which is a new property
we haven't seen before 2 2 and this defines how many columns we want if the default is 1 which is a
normal list but you can't have more than one column in there and this gives you a grid effectively.
Now with that we could render a grid.
But of course we need some data for that.
Otherwise it's still hard to render a grid.
Right.
For that I'll add a new folder which are named data and in there I'll add a dummy dash data dot jazz
file because in the end it is just some dummy data which I'm supplying here.
We're not loading this from a server or anything like that right now just loaded like this instead.
I want to have a bunch of categories in there and 4D I'll add yet another folder which I name models
which is in the end of folder where I want to define how my data is shaped in this app how it looks
like.
So there we can add a category dot J.S. file for example and in this fall all I want to have is a class
which I'll name category and classes are default javascript features and modern javascript which I export
and dare I will simply define how a Category object in my application should look like so that we basically
have an easier way of creating these objects in well without mis typing and so on.
So here this Category class will take a constructor and you can use this constructor which is a default
method you can ask.
You can add to any class in javascript to initialize an object based on this class.
You do this by expecting some arguments here in the constructor and for a category I want to get an
idea for the category a title and a color which I'll use as a background color in the grid for this
grid item for this category.
And I we'll store all this data in properties with the help of the this keyword in case this is totally
brand new to you definitely dive into some javascript courses or resources first because this has nothing
to do with react navigation or with React Native.
This is vanilla modern javascript.
Now why did I create this.
Because now I can import my category class from the models folder from the category just fall into the
dummy data file and then use this to create some dummy data.
Now you find that dummy data attached attached you find JavaScript file with these dummy categories
which I store in a constant which had then export as a named export here.
This is some dummy category data for two categories in this app this.
These categories I want to have in this app These are the categories I will use in this app and these
are the categories we can now therefore use instead of our screens in the categories screen to be precise
so in their I want to add import and import category as from data dummy data.
So that's importing that named constant we're exporting there.
Now this is an array of JavaScript objects in the end right.
That's what we stored in there.
It's just an array of JavaScript objects which you can now use to render our list or to be precise our
grid here.
So data for this flat list is simply my categories arrays all just point at categories.
And of course we now also need render item to define how a single great item should be rendered which
component should be rendered their for this I'll add a new function here render grid item which is a
function that will receive some item data in the end here and that should return J as X element should
return some react component here.
And I will point at render grid item heater now in there all render of view and to keep things simple
for now it is will be a view with a text in there and then that text I want to render item data dot
item.
That's what we have a way to blow on a flat list.
If you remember early on modules the item data object here has a hot has an item property react made
of flat list gives you decide and property and then there will have title property because the item
we're getting here is just a category we're getting from our data we're feeding into the flat list so
we'll have such a javascript object as item there.
And this javascript object is based on our model here and there we set up a title a color and a deep
property.
Hence we have a title property hence we can extract the title here like this we'll use to color later
so that's the first thing.
This should work now in New wordings of React Native.
You also don't need to inform React Native bed your I.D. is not named key but is actually named I.D.
because newer versions of React Native accept I.D. as an I.D. on list data as well.
If you would follow along in a older version you would need to add a key extractor here which is a function
that gets D item in the index and needs to return the value that should be used as a key.
So in this case that would be item dot I.D..
Again newer versions of React Native don't need this but just for reference and for older versions I'll
still at this here.
So now we return our flat list here with our data.
If we now save this we should already see our data here.
Of course not really that beautiful but a grid.
We have Italian next to it.
Quick and Easy hamburgers next to a German.
It just doesn't look like a grid but it technically is.
Now to make it look a bit more like grid we of course need to add more styling now to change that styling
a little bit.
We can go to our grid items here to single grid item and add to stall bra prop here and add a grid item
stall or whatever you want to name it.
And then down later I'll add grid item to mall style sheet and give this property of flex want to take
as much space as it can get.
Safeties now it just looks already a bit more like a grid.
Now some margin around each item would also be nice of your dad.
We can just add margin and maybe add 15 as a margin around each item so that we have more spacing in
all directions.
And with that it's not too bad.
Of course we can also change the general look and for example give each item a height of let's say one
hundred and fifty and it's totally up to you which values should choose their but I'd say with that
it's quite nice.
Great.
Certainly doesn't win a style award yet but we're going in the right direction.
Now before we finished the styling of this and we definitely have some work left to do for that let's
make sure that we can tap these items and we then go to the detail screen for debt specific item again
let's stay deal for all we'll see how we can actually set a title in the header so did we have a better
idea of where we're currently at.